At the WSIB, we write three types of letters: 

1.	Decision Letter – where the Workplace Parties (WPP’s) are formally advised of a decision reached about an employer account.
2.	Information Request Letter – where we request specific information.
3.	Status Letter – where we provide the status of an account, situation, issue. This should not be confused with a decision on worker status, which is a decision letter.

A good letter speaks for itself. It should contain enough information that no further explanation is needed. At the same time, the closing should welcome further contact at any time.
When we interact with the public, it is a reflection on the WSIB as a whole. Follow these simple steps to create letters that are clear, concise and easy to read.
Tone
Be positive; state what you can do – do not over-promise, of course. I will adjust your insurable earnings as soon as I get the updated information from your accountant. 
Voice and taking ownership
Voice
Voice is the form a verb takes to show whether its subject acts or is acted upon. I will adjust your insurable earnings is active; your insurable earnings will be adjusted is passive. Sentences in the active voice are usually shorter.

Ownership
Take responsibility for your actions. Use the first person singular - “I” whenever possible. If you reviewed a document with someone else, and it is important the reader knows this, use “we”, otherwise, use “I”.
Clichés/Jargon and Wordiness
Clichés are groups of words that are overused or trite. Some examples are:
•	As per your request
•	Attached please find
•	Please find enclosed
•	The undersigned
•	Thanking you in advance
•	At your earliest convenience
 
Jargon is a type of cliché. Jargon is technical words or phrases used in a particular trade or profession.

Our readers will generally not be “in the know” as to our particular type of jargon.
When we must quote policy or legislation, it is important to explain what the term means in everyday language.  Jargon can also include terms that the reader may understand but they sound overly formal and bureaucratic.
 
The chart below lists some terms commonly used and a better way of saying them. Add to the list as you go about your daily work.
 
